Ashes: 
MP #5: At the start of the Level, walk to the back of the train near the rear control console for a Moral Point.

MGR #1 before door to collector, at the top of starcases

MGR #2 right after door to collector, when Anna says go right you go left. Check near skelet in light blue jacket

MP #6: Once you & Anna reach a ladder, continue past it down the right further into the tunnel. Burn some cobwebs to get at the corpses to find a Moral Point.

Note #2: After receiving the Moral Point for the corpses, look to your right in the same area. The Note will be on the ground in the back right corner beside a corpse in a blue coat.

MP #7: Once you reach the surface follow Anna towards the ruins. Stay with her until she begins climbing to her sniping position for a Moral Point.

Loot #1 after MP7 go forward you will see blue car to the left. Turn left, dont drop to plateau just yet. There is a skelet with filters and shotgun ammo

MP #8?: When you drop down onto the plateau after Anna has gone up to snipe, stay in the initial area where you came down. Do not get too far ahead yet. Anna will tell you that there is movement & Watchmen incoming (they will begin climbing up the cliff ledge to you). Do not immediately engage them, stay back & wait for the Moral Point to appear before you start shooting them. The Moral Point should unlock if the Watchmen trigger on their own & not get triggered by you getting to close to them or too far along in this area. As a side note: Do not let them hit you!

Loot 2 after watchments figt. In the middle of the road, filters under sckelet. Cant miss

Achievement #3 – Not A Rabbit: Finish the Ashes Level without taking a hit.
Do not get hit by any Watchmen in this first encounter to unlock the Achievement. This may take a few tries, if you get hit just reload the last checkpoint BEFORE you kill them all otherwise it will save after you’ve fought them. There is around 10-12 Watchmen, just remember to always reload your weapon at a break in their waves. The Achievement won’t unlock until after you beat the Level. If you succeeded, Anna will ask if you are alright & say “Maybe you are more than a rabbit after all.”

As well, if you are reloading Checkpoints because you got hit, you may have to re-collect MP #8 as these do not stay unlocked if you reload prior to grabbing it.


Pavel:

Note #3: After the section where you & Pavel climb up the ladders in the prison block, you will climb through a pipe that leads to some Throwing Knives. Take the knives & turn around, head straight down along the wall to find the Note sitting on some boxes.

Loot3 behind crates, near note3, on the floor

Loot4 when Pavel syas to press the button to call guards, before buttons go a forward, behind cells there is a body with knoves

MP #9: When you reach the set of doors that you need to tandem open with Pavel, go to the right into the control room instead. Pull the small lever near the Nazi that is sitting down, releasing all the prisoners & receiving a Moral Point.

Loot5 same room, before doors. There is an alcove, where one nazi sleep and another going to crates and back to control room. Orange box with heals on the wall


Achievement #4 – Freedom!: Free the Prisoners on the Pavel Level.
When you pull the lever to release the prisoners back in the cell block it will unlock this Achievement.

Reich:

Note #4: As soon you begin the Level, head straight past the fence walls, the Note will be on a table to the left of the escalators.


Achievement #5 – Clean Escape: Escape the chasing Nazis on the Reich Level without being caught once.

During the chase sequence when Pavel disrupts the Fuhrer’s speech, do not get caught by any of the Nazi’s. If you did this successfully the Achievement will unlock after you board the rail cart & drive away.

Negative Moral Point: When you climb aboard the rail cart there is a Nazi who surrenders after the chase sequence. When you regain given control of Artyom, DO NOT kill him as it will result in a Negative Moral Point towards the “Evil Ending”. 








Separation:

Loot6 level start. Pistol ammo in red cross box. There is small alcove with spider net opposite to gates near hole where Pave disappear. Look behind some almost destroyed construction.

Loot7 level start. Ammo in box above main tunnel, before gates

Loot8 right after gates before you jump off the box. There is a box near wall in dark near wooden pallet from which you go up to box to jump over fence

Loot9 jump off the box, hug the wall. There is a box before you go unders railcar

Loot10 building, 1st floor. second room from gates. In the corner behind some big metal barrels. gun on a box with book.

Loot11 building, 1st floor. First room from gates. Safe key on a table with samovar

Loot12 building, 1st floor. First room from gates. Box with ammo, table next to wal, not far from samovar

Loot13 building, 1st floor. First room from gates. Gun with silenser on a couch

Safe1 building, 2nd floor. First room from gates. Safe by the windows that look to railcar

Loot14 building, 2nd floor. First room from gates. Room with safe. Gun on a box, middle of the room

Note5 building, 2nd floor. First room from gates. Room with safe. Check control panel.

Loot15 building, 2nd floor. Balcony. Gun

Note6: After the man on the bed surrenders, look to the left inside the same room & you’ll see the Note on top of a dresser.

Loot16 next to note6 in metal box

MGR After the man on the bed surrenders, search room with tunnel. Box on the floor a little behind tunnel entrance.

This is a total stealth Level; you must complete it without killing anyone or raising the alarm to unlock Invisible Intruder Achievement. Knocking people out is allowed & will not void the Achievement. If a guard flicks his light on or starts patrolling, you have most likely been discovered & failed the Achievement.

Achievement #6 – Pyromaniac: Burn 50 Cobwebs.
This can unlock at any time really, make sure you burn any cobwebs you find. I unlocked this Achievement during this Level, but I had restarted a few Levels prior & this is cumulative over your current game. Just keep burning those webs!

Achievement #7 – Edison: Turn off 40 Lights without breaking them.
I unlocked this Achievement during this Level as well because of how many times I was restarting for the Invisible Intruder Achievement. So long as your unscrewing light bulbs as you come across them as well as repeating it if you have to restart from Checkpoints, it won’t take long to unlock this Achievement.

MP #10: If you did not kill anyone on this Level, you will unlock a Moral Point after passing the surrendering Nazi & climbing through the open grate.

Achievement #8 – Invisible Intruder: Complete the Separation Level without killing or raising the alarm.
The Achievement should unlock once you enter the vent if you were successful. If it did not unlock, you will have to restart the whole Level unfortunately.












Facility:

Once again, for this Level you must beat it without killing anyone or raising the alarm to unlock Invisible Saviour Achievement. Again, you can knock people out, just do not kill them & do not cause them to start searching for you or even see you.

MP #11: When you begin the Level after Artyom exits the air vent, round the corner & watch the scene where a Nazi punches another soldier in the face & berates him for a Point.

MP #12: After the last Moral Point, head down the hall & listen to the conversation between two Nazis talking about a stashed custom weapon.

MP #13: After they finish their conversation, follow the Nazi heading back to the locker room & when he opens his locker, knock him out & take the weapon.

Loot17 same room, orange box on a wall

Loot18 same room, pale box next to orange box

MP #14: Now head back to the main room & take the metal stairs leading up above the center chamber. Listen to the two Nazis on the catwalk fixing the light system.

MGR main room, first floor, blue box not far from accordeon

Loot19 main room, first floor, look for orange barrel next to one of entrances. Above it some (pistol?) ammo

MP #15: When you go & open a door, the Nazi who was being bullied previously will be crouching on the ground inside a freezer. He will see you, but like the Reading Nazi who surrendered on the last Level, this guy is alright too. If you leave him be you will receive a Moral Point when you exit through the vent on the other side of the room. Kill him to loose MP

Loot20 room with plants after freezer. Orange box on a wall next to entrance to next room

Loot21 room with plants after freezer. Locker in a corner not far from previous orange box

MGR next, generators room. There is a soldiear next to ventilation sitting in a chair next to table with gas lamp. Diagonal from where you enter. Check box on a second cheir

MP #16: ventilation in generators room. Drop down next to soldier sitting in cheir

Loot22 ventilation in generators room. Drop down next to soldier sitting in cheir and look left

MP #17: After the last Moral Point, you will enter a room with water turbines. Directly down the stairs there’s two Nazis discussing the hanging of Pavel, just listen to their conversation to get the Moral Point.

Loot23 turbines room entrance. Lockers next to way down into water

Loot24 water. go down where level starts then left under 3 soldiers toalinkg about Pave's execution

Loot25 somewhere in the middle of the room. Where 2 soldiers talk about newborn. Follow soldier that was standing during conversation. He will enter small room. Check table for a box

Loot26 somewhere in the middle of the room. Where 2 soldiers talk about newborn. Follow soldier that was standing during conversation. He will enter small room. Check turned down basket in the corner

Loot27 somewhere in the middle of the room. Where 2 soldiers talk about newborn. Follow soldier that was sitting during conversation. Locker.

Loot28 somewhere in the middle of the room. Where 2 soldiers talk about newborn. There is a locker next to where they where talking

Loot29 start of the room. Before soldiers talking about Pavel execution. There is a barrel with spinning and box.

MGR somewhere in the middle of the room. Where 2 soldiers talk about newborn. Follow soldier that was standing during conversation. Look for entrance to water. Go right. Check box on a barrels

Achievement #9 – Engineer: Use 10 Lever Switches.
Much like the other cumulative Achievements this was the point where I earned Engineer. This ranges from opening doors to the switches that control certain lights.

Note #7: At the far end of the room is a small metal cage area you have to take a set of stairs to get up to. The lever to open the door to progress is here however if you turn around to your left there is another small room. The Note is to your left on a table.

Key #2: In the same room as the Note, on a shelf will be a red safe key.

Safe #2: After grabbing the key leave the metal cage area & continue left over the water & up another set of metal stairs into a small room. The safe is on the floor near a desk.

MP #18: When you exit through the metal door & approach a Trip Wire, if you haven’t killed anyone you will trigger the next Moral Point.

Trip Wire #1: Be sure to disarm this Trip Wire as we will need 10 of them for the Ever Vigilant Achievement.


Achievement #10 – Invisible Savior: Complete the Facility Level without killing or raising the alarm.
When you exit through the wall & get the cinematic of Artyom climbing you should unlock the Achievement if you successfully fulfilled it.









Torchlight:

For this Level, remember to cause the Spiders to go belly up with your Flashlight before you kill them as well as burning any cobwebs with your lighter.

Key #3: At the very beginning of the Level there is a corpse on your left. The safe key is in his lap, it is easy to miss.

Loot30 after lights go down find half eaten body to your left. There will be a gun next to it

Loot31 from loot30 look right, backpack behind spiders web in small alcove

Loot31 a gun in next alcove, to the left

Loot32 after Pavel tell about light look down. 3 dead bodies

Safe #3: Follow Pavel down the tunnel. Pavel will ask you to help to lift grate. Look around. There is a safe in tunnel dead end

MP #19: Drop down and follow Pavel down the cobweb filled corridors. When you reach an elevator look to the left of it & burn the webs away. You will find a small stash of ammo & a Medkit next to two skeletons as well as a Moral Point.

Loot33 mp19 location, search 2 skelets and orange box

MP #20: Entering the elevator with Pavel earns a Moral Point.

Negative Moral Point: In the elevator with Pavel, leave your flashlight on throughout the ride otherwise you’ll earn a Negative Moral Point.

MP #21: When attacked, fending off the Spiders with Artyom's flashlight in the elevator earns a Moral Point.

MP #22: As soon as you exit the elevator Pavel will be attacked by a Spider. Kill it quickly to earn a Moral Point.

Loot34 room where you exit elevator. Look behind some crates on the right. Some ammo

Loot35 as soon as you exit room with elevator, turn right, look for orange crate on the ground near skelet. Some ammo

Loot36 jump on a bridge and look left, skelet with heals

Loot37 after jump over broken bridge scetion cutscene and before entering railcar, find skelet on your right near railcar. Some ammo and heals

Note #8: Once you climb on top of the train look right in front of you

Loot38 Ammo on a dead body in a ligt spot after second jump cutscene, when Pavel get torch

MP #23: After the train tunnel, Pavel will light a torch, keep close behind him & follow him to the red metal door for a Moral Point.

MGR when Pavel tell you to go find how to unlock door, look under skelet on your right near exit to next room

Note #9: After Pavel stops at the door, he tells Artyom to find a way to open it. Follow the path down the right & in a small space to your left there will be a dead body with a Note on it.

Loot39 return to main path immediatly after mp19 2 skelets with ammo and heals on the floor

Loot40 follow this coridor, before you turn left there is a small alcove behind steel grates and wweb with a turned off gas lamp

Loot40 orange box with ammo, knives and heals on a wall in generator room

Loot41 before you go through that door (end of the level) go back to where Pavel got a torch. There will be small room on your left with ammo on a workbench and a skelet on the floor










Echoes:

Key4 as soon as level start, get out from tunnel and look left. Key is on shelf behind bar counter

Note #10: As soon as the Level begins, you will see a Note on your left lying on top the bar counter.

Loot42 next to note10, metal box with ammo

Loot43 table next to bar counter, ammo, filters (Pavel will show this table)

Safe #4: Underneath the stair way in the room right after the door Pavel opens, you will find a hole in the wall. Crawl through & find the Safe.

Loot44 right after cutscene head back, there is a room to the left, near stairs. Skelet on a floor with filter

MP #24: After you & Pavel reach the surface you will walk down an airplane wing down to the ground, turn left & look for a sewage pipe near airplane engine. At the end of a pipe is a skeleton & a Moral Point.

Loot45 mp24, filters and ammo + on your way back check floor, some more ammo

MP #25: After leaving the pipe, walk to the far left corner of this first area towards the downed blue plane. The skeleton lying right in front of its opened side will give you a Moral Point.

Loot46 mp25, filters

Loot47 follow Pavel, enter old train station. Pavel will stop and suggest you to get more filters near skelet. You can get also some ammo and new mask

MP #26: from loot47 move forward, burn webs and look right. There is a room with blood on the floor. Enter this room and you will get mp

Loot48 mp26 room, ammo and filters on the floor

Loot49 Pavel will stop before exit from station and tell you to check service room. In green coridor that lead to this serive room find skelet with ammo

MP #27: Enter the service room further down the tunnel. Take the Duplet on the table for a cinematic & of course, a Moral Point.

Loot50 service room metal box

MP #28: Letting the Watchmen herd pass by without being spotted earns you a Moral Point.

Achievement #11 – Mouse: Complete the Echoes Level undetected by the Watchmen.
When you find the herd of Watchmen running in front of you at the end of the station, don’t shoot them & let them pass to earn this Achievement.

Loot51 after watchmens Pavel will run towards plane, stop there end tell you he heard about this place. Look for a skelet in some green box near plane engine

Loot52 plane entrance, under searts as you enter, just a little to your left. Shotgun ammo

Loot53 plane entrance, go opposite direction from Pavel. Filter on the floor

MP #29: Walk into the plane by opening the emergency door with Pavel. As you walk down the isles with him, you will have hallucinations of the passengers. Walking towards the cockpit will earn you a Moral Point.

Note #11: Near the entrance to the cockpit, when you leave the last rows of isles behind, you can see this Note laying on the floor to your right behind a spider web. Burn the web & pick it up.

Loot54 filters under skelet near (before) plane exit

Loot55 once you exit plane there is tall building in front of you. Go forward till you see entrance to this building. Skelet with ammo on the floor on ground level and orange crate on second floor

MGR + Loot56 exit loot55 building, right in front of you another building. Red box near skelet on the floor, filter under skelet

Loot57 Pavel will stop and talk about wardens, you will hear they hawl. Green car to your left. Skelet with filter and ammo on this car

Loot58 after jump to station turn right, orange box on the wall

Loot59 from loot58 hug right wall, you will see some dark service room. Go there, in the end there is metal box on the floor

The Note can also be collected after seeing the flashback of the crashing plane. You can grab it before or after helping Pavel with his mask, just don’t forget to pick it up if you wait till then.










Bolshoi:

Key #5: When the Level begins, some guards will open a door we need to progress through to get into the station. Before entering the room, look to the right of the doorway to see a safe key hanging by some papers on the wall.

MP #30: Pavel will lead us out to some train tracks. Before following him right, stop & listen to the family members & the guards speaking to one another at the end of the line for a Moral Point.

Note #12: After passing the train tracks, head through the fabric cover at the checkpoint to see the Note on a bunk bed on your left.

MP #31: Passing the checkpoint & just before walking into the bar, you will see a beggar sitting on the ground. Put a big fat Bullet into his collection box to receive a Moral Point. Putting another Bullet into his box after listening to him speak will award you a second Moral Point as well...

MP #32: Walk into the bar & stand beside the two gentleman sitting at a table to the right of the bar. Listen to their conversation to earn a Moral Point.

MP #33: Carry on a little ways out of the bar & listen to the two stalkers telling Katja that her husband was killed by a Demon. Listening earns you a Moral Point.

MP34 2 woman on a bench talking about dead husband

MP #35: Head a little ways forward & watch Mischa show the children animal impressions with shadows. Watching it for a minute or so earns you a Moral Point.

MP #36?: After watching Mischa turn around & head all the way back to the train tracks with all the families, you will see two kids standing in front of a man & a woman sitting behind a fence. Listen to them talk about the army to earn a Moral Point.

MP #37: Now go & leave the market. Stand in front of a man & a theater attendant talking about contraband. He will then turn & talk to you about it as well, you will receive a Moral Point when he turns & walks into the market.

Note #13: After the conversation with the attendant, enter the theater through the left & you will see the Note sitting on a bench to your left.

Achievement #12 – Parton of the Arts: Watch the entire Theater Show on the Bolshoi Level.
The whole show takes about 10 minutes so either sit & enjoy the show… go make some food or stare at your phone. Whatever you do, if you come back & the announcer is just standing off to the side, check your Achievements & you will have it in no time.

MP #38: Watching the entire theater show earns a Moral Point as well.

MP #39: As you enter the backstage area with Pavel, listen to the dancer talk about another girl’s boyfriend to earn a Moral Point.

Safe #5: Near the back of the changing room, Pavel will stop to talk to a woman leaning against the exit. To her left, we can find the Safe tucked against the wall beside a red curtain.

MP #40: When you leave the backstage area, Pavel will walk towards a table in red. Instead of joining him, carry on past the trains on your right till you come across two ladies in a bathroom. Listen to their conversation to earn a Moral Point, because Artyom knows being a peeping tom is very morally just…










Korbut:

Achievement #13 – Within a Hair of Death: Escape from the Red Line on the Korbut Level.
Story Related. After Lenya frees you from the Reds at the start of the Level you will unlock this Achievement.

MP #41: As you are crawling through the vent, stop & listen to Moskvin & Korbut’s conversation. 










Revolution:

Beat this Level without killing anyone or raising the alarm to unlock the Invisible Soldier Achievement.

MGR + Loot60 first room, metal box with red cross on a table

Loot61 liquid explosive on a floor

Loot62 ammo in metal box on shelves next to table

Loot63 ammo in locker

Loot64 filters in metal crate on the floor, opposite to table wall

Loot65 metal crate with red cross by the metal detector

Loot66 locker near solder disarming bomb

MP #42: Leave the storage room you start in at the beginning of this Level & go downstairs to listen to the guard reporting in on the intercom. Do not knock him out until he has finished.

Key #6: In the previous room, find a key sitting on a table just to the right of the stairs you came down.

Loot67 key6 room, kalash in locker

Loot68 key6 room, locker, filters

Note #14: Go into the small room on the left where the Note will be on a desk.

Safe #6: Now back track all the way up the stairs. Jump a gap & head to the third floor, open the metal door & you will find the Safe on a table to your right.

Loot69 in large room one of workers Andreich where talking too will go to workbench. There is metal box on this workbench

Loot70 yellow box on the floor not far from loot69, watch where another worker goes to burn rats

Loot71 in large room check wall near place where Andreich stop to talk second time, orange box

MGR + Loot72 remember where two 'idlers' where standing? By gas lamp near generator. There is metal crate

Loot73 second big room where workers talk about safety, locker with kalash by entrance from ventilation

Loot74 second big room where workers talk about safety, small metal box on the table in the middle of the room

loot75 second big room where workers talk about safety, ammo in big red box under one of reilcars

MP #43: After entering the first large room, keep to the right & you’ll climb along a few boxes. Enter a vent then drop into a tunnel where there will be another door. Go through the door & you will end up in a barracks. Listen to the two Reds talking about the Level Front Line from Metro 2033.

Loot76 mp43 room, gun with silencer on shelves

Note #15: In the next room with the Red doing pull ups, you will find the Note on a shelf to your right.

Loot77 note15 room, small metal box on the table

Key #7: In the same room you can find the red safe key to the left of the Note on a small table in front of a couch.

Safe #7: After grabbing the key, turn around & walk into the caged room with all the shelves. You will find the Safe on the first shelf on the left.

Loot78 ammo in metal box on table in room with gates

Loot79 small metal box on shelves right after gates

MP #44: When you re-enter that large room, sneak around to the far right near an engineer working a crane. Listen to him talk with another soldier before he goes & takes a smoke break for a Moral Point.

Loot80 ammo in long box on the ground next to train on the side with crane

Loot81 small box on the wall right after you go through door under green lamp

Loot82 filters on shelves next to lights switch

Key #8: Once you exit the large room through the door, carry on straight into the next room with all the mechanics. Directly on your left you will see a soldier working on an electrical box in a small room, the key will be hanging on his right.

MGR + loot83 room with key8, metal box with red cross on table

MGR + loot84 there is exactly same room as key8 room on the opposite side of big room. Check metal mox on the ground

loot85 climb up the ledder from loot84, some box with filters, knives

Loot86 tikhar + ammo, catwalks above key8

MGR small metal box in sewage

Loot87 sewage, blue box with filters and knive

MP #45: Listen to the soldiers complete their four tests up in the control room, when they call a smoke break you will receive a Moral Point.

loot88 sewage2 duplet with long barrel

Note #16: Move to the far left area of the room & climb a ladder up to a control room, you will find the Note on the computer panels next to the switch you have to pull to turn off the large fan

Safe #8: In the same room, look up to your right & you will find the Safe on top of a control panel.

loot89 filters right next to safe8

MP #46: After climbing through the fan & entering the next room, listen to the two soldiers below you talking in front of a desk.

Note #17: After listening to the soldiers’ conversation, climb down the ladder & pick up the Note that will be on the desk they were in front of.

Loot90 small red box next to note17

MGR soldier who only 1 hour left till shift over, after he finish talking to patrol will go check shelves. There is big red box

Loot91 box with ak? on left side, middle of the room, by wall, not far from crane

Loot92 pistol in box on catwalks

MGR + loot93 small box on catwalks

loot94 ak second catwalks

MGR loot94 location, small metal box

loot95 end of second catwalk, metal box with red cross

MGR in box in box in box in box under loot95

Key #9: As you go to the far end of this room you will come across a group of soldiers gathered around a crate playing cards. The key is on that table.

MGR next to key9

loot96 small orange box on a wall next to soldier doing pull ups

Safe #9: Now back track up to the tops of the shelves in this area of the room. You will find the Safe on the very top of one of the shelves on the left overlooking the crate where you found the key.

MP #47: Exit this large room through another door, listen to the conversation between the machine gunner & a soldier for a Moral Point.

MGR after soldiers stop talking find fireplace in far end of the room. From this fireplace look right, there is mushrooms light, check box near mushrooms

loot97 after post, before ventilation, dead body and ak

loot98 Incendiary Grenade in ventilation

MGR ventilation, drop down and go back towards dead end

MGR ventilation, drop down again, you should see dead body in web, check floor

Achievement #14 – Invisible Soldier: Complete the Revolution Level without killing & raising an alarm.
Once you exit the tunnels & leave through the vent at the end of the Level, you should unlock the Achievement if you completed this Level successfully. 















Regina:

MP #48: After boarding Regina & exiting Andrew's home at the start of the Level, drive a little ways down the track & get out when the game prompts you to. Entering the area on your left with the lamp on the desk earns a Moral Point.

MGR mp48 table

MGR + loot99 mp49 locker

loot100 progress a little further and you will notice door under a flickering light to your left. There is gas mask and filters by this door

loot101 enter loot100 door. You will notice turn left. If you skip it then you can find skelet with heals by left wall

loot102 returm to crossroad and go left. Skelet in green jacket with ammo and heals after a while

MP #49: A little ways down the tunnel get to a glowing red room at the end with a light switch.

loot103 mp49 location

loot104 after mp49 go right after some turns there will be skelet in pale blue jacket on the ground with some ammo and heals

Achievement #15 – Tortoise: Make 10 Spiders flip belly-up.
If you have been diligent with your Spiders, you may unlock this Achievement around here, if not, do not worry. Plenty more Spiders to come, you should be getting close.

MGR + loot105 ride on Regina till you see rusty metal plate on your right, easy to miss. Skelet with ammo, heals and mgr

MP #50: Continue before finding another doorway on the left with glowing green mushrooms growing off it. This doorway leads into a partly submerged area. Follow it to the end & at the back on the right will be a room with some ammo & a skeleton where you’ll receive a Moral Point.

loot106 by the side door near airlock there is filter and mask

loot107 right after loot106 enter blue door and you will see skelet on the floor

loot108 progress to this location, you will find skelet with gas lamp you wont miss it if hug left wall. Ammo, filter

loot109 almost right after loot108 another skelet on your right. Ammo, heals

MP #51: As soon as you open the airlock doors & enter a gas mask area, get out of Regina & turn the switch on the left to change the rail tracks to continue straight. Drive straight through the wooden barricade ahead, you will earn a Moral Point on the other side of it.

MGR + loot110 mp51 area skelet to your left + metal box near this skelet on the ground

MGR + loot111 mp51 area skelet to your right in small alcove

MGR + loot112 carry on down the left path, stop Regina just at the next intersection. On foot go left to the train. Skelet on the ground with goodies

MGR + loot 113 + MP #52: go into the train and in the dead end you will find another nook

Achievement #16 – Air!: Spend 30 minutes’ worth of Air Filters.
This will happen eventually & is pretty much guaranteed for this playthrough since we send so much time searching for stuff.

loot114 continue riding Regina and you will find door to your right eventually. Gas mast and filter in the box on the wall.

MP #53: right after loot114 look into room, get mp

Loot115 + Key #10: In this same area, follow the halls to the back left area to find a skelet on the ground near a set of metal detectors.

Safe #10: Back track from the key & enter the small office room to your left. The Safe is on the floor in the back right corner near a desk.

MGR there is one more room after room with safe. Check floor with blood on it

Achievement #17 – Master Thief: Open 10 locked Safe boxes.
If you have been following along with the guide, this is where we will unlock this Achievement. Though, if you reload a Save & reopen the same Safe over & over again the game will register them as different Safes. Because of this, you may have unlocked the Achievement earlier. Either way, now that we have the Achievement, we no longer need to worry about finding them anymore.

Achievement #18 – Antibiotic: Kill 100 Mutants.
I unlocked this here after having to restart so many times for Scram. This Achievement is also pretty much guaranteed this play through, this is a good spot to get it. Especially if you keep heading in through the set of rooms where the last Safe was & kill the Watchmen there every time.

loot116 while pushing train you will hear voices, look around you will see doorway. There is a gas mask with filter in the box on the wall and skelet on the floor

MP #54: enter loot116 location, as you progress down the coridor you will get mp

loot117 in the end of loot116 coridor, there is a skelet with betal box on the floor and throwing knive on table in the corner before this skelet

MP #55: After the third wave of Watchmen, you will eventually come to a doorway on your left (if your looking backwards) that is marked by some green glowing mushrooms. As you’re making your way down the flooded tunnel, you’ll receive this Moral Point just before reaching the dead end.

Note #18: In the same area at this dead end, you will find this Note is at the back of the room on a dead body.

loot118 note18 location, dead body + metal box + dead watchmen (bolts) + column (bolt)

Achievement #19 – Scram: Kill the Watchmen attacking the Railcar without taking any damage on the Regina Level.
Be sure to restart right away if any Watchmen board the rail cart because if you finish the sequence & fail, you cannot reload your Last Checkpoint. You will have to restart the whole Level which can be very frustrating. There are Checkpoints along the way that you will reload to, the Note will stay collected as well which is nice, but you may need to re-grab Moral Points if it takes you to before you found them. It will unlock after you push the train to the end & have to change directions of the tracks. 


















Bandits:

Do not be discovered by the bandits & save all the refugees without any of them dying on this Level for the Commando Achievement. You can kill them or knock them out, this isn’t a non-lethal section. This could be a perfect time to try for the No Shooting Allowed Achievement, killing 10 enemies in a row Throwing Knives.

MP #56: When you first begin the Level, turn around & crawl under the wooden beams behind Regina. A Moral Point is earned after discovering the skeleton there.

loot119 mp56 location

MP #57: After crashing through the wall

loot120 right after mp57 in small alcove to your left

loot121 drive down the tunnel till you hear woman cray. Check you your left, dead body with some heals

loot122 go toward woman crying, when you reach tunnel with blue lamp check wall to your right, 2 throwing knives

MP #58: help woman

Achievement #20 – Shadow: Stealthily kill 15 enemies.
If you have been stealthily killing humans with either your Trench Knife executions or Throwing Knives you should unlock this Achievement on this Level.

Achievement #21 – No Shooting Allowed: Kill 10 enemies in a row with Throwing Knives.
As I said above, this is a perfect time to try for this Achievement. Just kill all the bandits you come across with Throwing Knives, there should be more than 10 of them on this Level.

loot123 in tunnel where railroads merge you will start in 1 (lower left corner) and need to go 9 (upper right). First go 7, search dead end

Note #19: untie caravaner

loot124 there are 2 alcoves, in one you untie caravanerm in another some loot in metal box on table and under pillow

loot125 filters and ammo, right before bandits main camp. There is gas lamp illuminating toilet, area with this gas lamp. Box on the wal witg gas mask and filter and backpack with ammo on the floor under this box

note20 on the floor in toilet right before main bandit camp

loot126 filter on the floor, note20 location

loot127 proceed into camp, to your left there is platform and then train. On platform you will find some service building. Inside above toilet orange box on the wall with heals

key11 enter train, in dark dead end there is sleeping bandit with key next to him

safe11 near gates control switch

loot128 near gates control switch

loot 129 after gates look right there will be rusty grates with ckelet and backpack behind

MGR right after this another grates now slightly highlighted by gas lamp in toilet upstairs. Check battery in the second tilet room

MGR + loot 130 + MP #59: continue riding Regina, on crossroads go straght. Search dead end. 4 mgr locations here by the train, 2 for each side

loot131 continue your journey, you will hear woman cry. Investigate area. In first coridor after gas lamp you can turn left, if you turn left and see electricl light you need to return. Ammo on some box

Note #20: in loot131 location you will eventually find kitchen. After that there is a room with dead body. Note on table behind this body

loot132 throwing knive on table by the dead body, note20 location. And ammo on a backpack by the table

MP #60: Go through the door & rescue the poor woman & child being held in the last room of the bandit camp. The Moral Point is earned when the bandit threatening them is killed or knocked out.

Achievement #22 – Commando: Rescue the women & children on the Bandits Level without raising the alarm.
When you kill or knock out the bandit with the woman & child you should unlock the Achievement if you were never detected. Be sure you saved the other two refugees earlier on in the Level as well.

loot133 after wooden barricade enter train in dead end filter

loot134 pistol ammo on a skelet in blue jacket at the right wall when you enter station

loot135 go upstairs, shotgun ammo and heals

loot136 more ammo on skelets downstairs, upper left corner (7)

loot137 2 skelets by venice sign
















Dark Waters:

Note #21: As soon as you start the Level, turn around face the front of the boat, it’s on a box.

loot138 search boat, only one box there with ammo, dinomite and heals

MP #61: A Morale Point will be earned at the end of the Level.













Venice:

MGR + MP lose once you exit boat look left. There is 2 more boats. On one of them sleeping man near red box. MGR is on this box. If you take it you loose mp

MGR + loot 139 on the piers metal box on some shelves

mp62 leave pier and immediatly turn left. Witness bandits rob some old man. Turn left again there is dirty main in back alleay

MGR quite this alley and turn left. Small metal box with MGR on a chair in dead end, after some guys trying lo load pig

MP 62 you will see some kitchen by the docks. After it turn into another alley and give a bullet to beggar

Note #22: next turn right will be station chief 'office'. Note is near table. If you see armory sign than you went too far away

MP #64: Turn around & head back the way where that man’s office is & head to the bar. Buy & drink the bartender's special, "The Bullet." But do not stop drinking here…

Achievement #23 – Cheers!: Drink at every occasion on the Venice Level.
Purchasing all 3 drinks at the bar in Venice will net you the Achievement.

MP #65: If you drink all 3 shots, you’ll blackout. When you come to back at the bar, the place will be wrecked & the bartender will be pretty mad. Listen to him mumble & if you pay him 100 Bullets for the damage you’ll get a Moral Point.

MGR leave bar and turn left than follow pier right till dead end. Metal box on the pier

MP #66: Pay 10 Bullets to use the shooting range & walk up to start shooting to earn this Moral Point.

MP #67: If you complete all three challenges at the shooting range, you will be awarded a teddy bear. Just what you’ve always wanted! Turn around & head down a nearby alley to return it to a crying child to receive the Moral Point.

Achievement #24 – Reunion: Find & return the crying child’s teddy dear on the Venice Level.
After giving the child his teddy bear back you will earn this Achievement.

Note #23: In the bottom floor of the brothel, there will be a tank with a spider. The Note is on top of it.

loot 139 Before entering storage (point of no return), check shelves on your left. Look for small metal box

MP #68: Completing the Level without killing OR knocking out any of the bandits in the storage area, without being detected will earn you a Moral Point. You will receive it as you enter the door on the far side & meet up with Pavel.

loot140 once you enter storage check crate on your left, metal box with heals and dinomyte

loot141 box on a wall near lights switch

loot142 as you progress into storage there will be bandit near some paintings and gas lamp. Go to opposite wal and return a little bit. Behind crates red metal box on the floor with land mines













Sundown:

loot143 as soon as level starts lool left. Metal box by the hatch you appear from

loot144 as soon as you go down skelet in grass with land mines and filters

loot145 from loot144 follow markers to your right. You will see destroyed wall. After it almost in the water on the ground orange metal box with ammo and heals

loot146 inside plane cabin

loot147 use plane wings as a bridge. There is destroyed building with metal crate and shotgun ammo inside

loot148 near planes tail look for markers. Skelet by the tree on small island with ammo

loot149 garages area. White truck. Ammo on a backpack and incendiary grenade in box

loot150 garages area. Markers near white track. Skelet with ammo, heals

loot151 garages ares with tower. Enter garage with turned over green car

loot151 same garage but look on the street. There is skelet next to it

loot152 garages area. Tower

loot153 exit tower, turn right. There is destoyed building with skelet and filters inside

loot154 same building, turn back to loot153 and find doorway to your left. One more room left. Mine on the ground near big griin thing

loot155 from loot154 hug the water and look right. There is sleeping shrimp by the wall in second room you pass. Near it 2 skelets

loot156 from loot155 follom markers to new island with half destroyed building. in the corner incendiary grenades near atms

loot157 next room of this building, 2 skelets on the floor with ammo and dinomyte on shelve

loot158 next room, dinomite on shelves

loot159 3rd room, with AK2012 and some ammo

loot160 refuleling station. Green big box near refueling tank. 2 skelets

Note #25: refueling station, bar near atm

loot161 note25 bar

loot162 refueling station, metal box near canisters

loot163 refueling station roof, skelet

MGR refueling station roof, get to the roof and check one of missing plates

loot164 look around from refueling station roof, find log. Use it to get to another island. You will get to another destoryed building. Behind one of corners of this building is a skelet with ammo, there is also a bus nearby

loot165 another building behind bus. It's second floor is broken and form triangle ehich end on the ground. Skelet on top of it

mp69 from loot166 look right. There are markers in a distance. Follow them to new island. Should get mp once you there

loot166 mp69 island, triangular thing like in loot165, skelet on top









Nightfall:

loot167 right ahead of you once you get out of boat. Metal box with filters

loot168 more filters to your left, near water

loot169 shotgun ammo, this towards house in front of you, there is a 2 skelets next to submerged raft to the left from this house

loot170 building second floor, on table with old clock

loot171 nightvision devise in room with loot170

loot172 more ammo on bollard with phone

Note #25: building second floor, storage room

loot173 storage room: rpk, green metal box, table

loot174 building first floor, drop down from storage room

loot175 building first floor, second room to the right from entrance, skelet on a couch and ammo on upsidedown shelves

loot176 moove away from building towards 2 busses. There is skelet next to red submerged buss

MGR inside blue, in metal box on the floor

loot177 once you exit blue bus you should see destroyed bridge to your right. Move towards section of this bridge in a distance. You will see some fires. Filter next to one of fires

loot178 keep bridge to your right, go to chirch. you will get to destroyed car eventually. There is skelet with some ammo

MGR + loot179 acros the road from loot178 you should see small truck with white stalker mask graffiti

loot180 continue to the chirch, search road on which truck with loot179 stands. There should be dead body in the middle and shotgun ammo in grass (hard to find)

loot181 mall, first floor, to your right once enter mall, 2 skelets with filter and ammo by atm

mp70 mall second floor, room with white mask graffiti

loot182 mall second floor, room with white mask graffiti

loot183 mall second floor, across the hall from room with white mask graffiti there is another room with filter on couch and ak on table and yellow metal box on bollard

loot184 mall second floor, next room after loot183, kitchen, skelet on floor with filter

loot185 mall second floor, metal box by fire before exit mall

loot186 track with white mask graffiti right after exit mall, 2 metal boxes

loot187 island before chirch




















Undercity:

loot188 locker in starting room

MGR next room, table to your right

MP #71: play the tape recorder on your way to catacombs near dead body

loot189 locker in mp71

loot190 dead body, mp71

loot191 dead body by the door right after mp71

loot192 backpack and duplet next to second torch

MP #72: after third torch once you hear bell ringing

loot193 mp72 location, next to torch4 in small alcove, small metal box

MGR + loot194 once you get to room with lift check foorway, skelet with some ammo and MGR

MP #73: As you descend down the elevator

MP #74: After the elevator section, you will come across some blue pools. Two Nosalis will drop down & start heading down the tunnel. DO NOT SHOOT THEM. Follow behind them & when you see them joining a larger herd you will receive a Moral Point.

loot195 once you first saw those nosalises check area where they where standing: throwing knive, shotgun ammo, incendiary grenade

MP #75: You will earn another Moral Point witnessing the whole herd move past without them detecting you.

Negative Moral Point: If you shoot at the Nosalis you will earn a Negative Moral Point towards the “Evil Ending”.

loot196 wait for herd pass and turn right, skelet

MP #76: After the herd passes, head down the tunnel they came from, & it will lead to a small shrine area where a Moral Point can be earned.

loot197 mp76 location

MGR loot198 next room after mp76, 3 skelets on the floor. One by the wall to mp76 room, another in the middle of the room (MGR) and third by the entrance to next room

loot199 next room after loot199, metal box with red cross on the floor

loot200 from loot199 look right there is a broken wall, behind it skelet with filter and metal box with ammo

loot201 next room, nosalis eating soldier

loot202 from loot201 look right, there is ligt. Check it for shotgun ammo

loot203 near gate

loot204 after descending the second small lift jump down and turn back. There is metal box and skelet on the floor

loot205 go into big room. Next to stairs up nosalis eat soldiers

mp77 same big room, first floor, some area with columns, sort of. Again nosalis eat body, there should be another body next to dead nosalis in small alcove

loot206 mp77 location, shotgun ammo

loot207 drop down, kill all nosalises, search all bodies

loot208 2 dead soldiers after you get out from lift

loot209 after you descend to cave skelet and metal box with ammo on the floor

loot210 same room, bastard under torch

Achievement #25 – Big Momma: Kill the Rhino on the Undercity Level.
Story Related. Kill the mutant Rhino?! thing to unlock Big Momma at the end of the Level.













650 Contagion:

loot211 down the tunnel till dead end. Dead body with some heals

loot212 backpack by dead body on your way in doorway from initial hallway

MP #76: If you reach Anna without killing any humans you will earn a Moral Point at the end of this Level. There is no Achievement for it however, so I usually skip this one to rack up more human kills for the Soldier Achievement. There is a whole other playthrough we have to do though so it isn’t that big of a deal if we don’t get that Achievement this go around. Your call.

MP #77: Crawling through the vents at the beginning of the Level, you will hear two Red soldiers executing citizens. Hurry hard through the vent & exit out your left to take down the soldier before he finishes off the last wounded man to earn a Moral Point.

MP #78: Stay a while & listen to the shot man’s explanation of what the Reds are doing to the station to earn a second Moral Point.

loot213 check lockers in room where you drop down from ventilation

loot214 mp78 room table, ammo and tikhar

loot215 railway tunnel dead end (to your right once you get there). Backpack by dead body

loot216 station, table in dark corner from which soldier will call firing squad

loot217 station, table with radio and blue gas lamp, ammo

MGR train, wooden crate

loot218 room where leitenant count goods, lockers

loot219 small box and pistol catwalk, go up from loot218 location and turn right

loot220 grey metal box leaning to barrel on way to second railway (area with green mushrooms light)

mp79 once you open loot220

loot221 second railway, under platform there is metal box and (empty) backpack

loot222 table next to open safe, ammo, throwing knives, heals, under second catwalk

loot223 lockers in same room with opet safe, under second catwalk

loot224 hellsing ammo in a dead body in room between 2 catwalks

loot225 there is alkove with distiller in loot224 room, check bollard

loot226 wouded soldier near train, there is wooden box by the wall and filters in it

loot227 filter before blue door to next area (do not enter sign)

MGR area where you need to use gasmask. As soon as you enter there will be way to go down, under platform. Right infront of you. There is some mgr

loot228 first area with smoke, 1st floor. Kind of building, dead body sitting in doorway

loot229 first area with smoke, 1st floor. Kind of building. Enter it, first room left, shelves, heal

loot230 first area with smoke, 1st floor. Kind of building. Enter it, second room left. Wall – dead body nailed with hellsing ammo

loot231 first area with smoke, 1st floor. Kind of building. Enter it, third room left. Guitar and filter on bollard

loot232 second area with smoke. Bar counter, sort of. Behind it on shelves small metal box

loot233 second area with smoke. Ammo on dead body behind some fence near leutenant commanding soldier to brake door

loot234 ammo and filters on box right next to this leutenant

MGR loot232 and 233, this room have bar counter in center. Check floor. Hard to see, simply smpam 'e'

MP #80: room with one red officer kill another, wounded, red officer. Let him finish execution

loot235 next to executed officer, search dead body of station dweller

MGR above executed officer, soldier who burn station (or is it dead body to which he is saying 'thi one is empty?')

MGR from previous mgr location check 'rooms', on bad

loot236 shotgun ammo in next 'room'

loot237 room above executed officer, helsing on table and ammo on bench

MGR in room with loot236 look for ventilation, you will get to catwalk. Look right, there is wooden crate with metal box and MGR on it

mp81 once you get previous mgr

loot238 previous mgr location, metal box

loot239 head back to soldier who was breaking door. Check table behind him for ammo and heals

loot240 head back to soldier who was breaking door. Check bed behind him in dead end, filters

loot241 same train, go forward. In the end there is dead body next to blue light gas lamp and opened safe with some heals

safeKey exit train. There is 2 soldiers. One is standing next to metal grate. Deal with him and check shelves next to him

loot242 thid trsin you just been to, in previous room there are stars up. Dead body with helsing bolt at stairs start

loot243 tran second floor, table, throwing knive, there is dead body under this table

loot243 next 'room' of this second floor, shotgun ammo on backpack on beds

note on table in third room of second floor train

MGR shelves next to note

loot244 exit this section of train, stay on second floor and look for one more room, to your left. Filters on table

safe in loot244 location

loot245 follow mission, incinirating granades before way down

loot246 once you jump dowm to railway look around for tilters

mp82 listen to field medic. You will get to some very small garden and generator, on second floor there is officer near dead bodies

loot247 metal box near this officer

loot248 metal box on first floor ander loot247

mgr one of soldiers who was throwing dead bodies into fire

loot249 ak2012 on wooden crate in area where soldiers burn bodies, under gas lamp

loot250 filters on wooden crate in area where soldiers burn bodies, near gas lamp

loot251 library second room, table right at the beginnig of room

loot252 orange metal box with ammo, middle of second library room, in someone's apartment

loot253 there are 2 soldiers in libarary second room. Right after first one turn right, easy to miss. Look for gasmask with filter on shelve

Achievement #26 – Savior: Remove your mask when Lesnitsky demands it on the Contagion Level.
If you succeed in taking your mask off, you will earn this Achievement.

MP #81: Removing your mask when Lesnitsky has his knife at Anna's throat, before he counts to five will earn you a Moral Point.

Negative Moral Point: You will earn a Negative Moral Point if you attack Lesnitsky.























Quarantine:

mp82 there is infected doctor in isolation talking to another doctor after crematorium. Listen to them

Note #27: When the Level begins, make your way through the quarantine zone until you are locked in a decontamination room with a doctor & a soldier. Head around the desk on your right & you will see the Note on another desk.

MP #82: Make sure you find all the Bullet stashes in the abandoned portion of the station for a Moral Point.

MGR right after qurantine zone, when soldier with megafone will tell you to come through, you climb up to second floor and enter station. Door will close behind you. Turn around and check pale blue window behind this door

MGR climb down, go straight. You will see circle with water incide and 2 subway cars. You need left one, with window closed with board and hand painted skull. This board have small hole

MGR down the 'street' fire to your right. Find another railcar to your left, another hole in boarded-up window

MGR right after this fireplace another subway car, another hole in boarded-up window

MGR eventually you will find mushrooms plantation. Subway car to your right before plantation, another hole in boarded-up window. This one should give mp

MP #83: give a bullet to a man trying to get back to station for insulin

Note #28: after mp83 go right (away from armory). Note is in dead end on the table

mp84 armory, 3 soldiers by gas lamp talking about local politics











694 Khan:

ammo1 (shotgun, pistol) check table on your right in workshop right after you left blockpost, metal box with red cross

MGR1 (700) after turbines coridor you will enter door with 'danger' sign. You will follow s-like coridor. Straight part, then by dirty channel back and then into green door. Before jumping into channgel check doorway at the end of straigh part.  MGR is under skelet

Note1 (29) #29: after turbines coridor you will enter door with 'danger' sign. You will follow s-like coridor. Straight part, then by dirty channel back and then into green door. Before jumping into channgel check doorway at the end of straigh part. Note is next to skelet

MGR2 (704) green metal box on the floor after previous green door

ammo2 (shotgun, pistol) same green metal box from MGR2

guns look around ammo2 box, look for four barrels duplet 

ammo3 (pistol) in skelet by this room exit

ammo4 (incendiary grenade) next room, right after you jump off the pipes

MGR3 (710) after you jump off pipes and walk through room with columns, there will be doorway to your right. Walk small coridor and check skelet to you right in small room

filters1 same room, orange box on the wall
first aid kit1 same orange box

ammo5 (ig) room covered in cobweb, green door and another room with cobweb. In this room check skelet by shelves

mp1 answer phone

mp2 enter river

key1 tunnel after river, dead body after alarm sistem (body on your left)

guns valve on table near key1

ammo6 (tikhar, valve) locker near valve
first aid kits2 same locker

safe1 before leaving this area find safe under platform
MGR4 (719) safe
ammo7 (shotgun, ak) safe














Chase:

note1 train, on blue boxes in first car with roof (if you dont see it and dont have it restart, here could be bug)

Achievement #27 – Soldier: Kill 100 Human enemies.

mp1 story related, at the end











The Crossing:

ammo1 (cl, grenade, valve) right at the begining, skelet
first aid kit1 same skelet
filters1 same skelet

ammo2 (shotgun, cm, ak) drop down to channel, backpack in water in pipe, near glowing green mushrooms

guns1 (shumber) pass overturned bus, look under bus hanging from bridge
filter2 under same bus
ammo3 (ak) under same bus

ammo4 (ak) metal box on ice
filter3 same box

ammo5 (ak, pistol) skelet on ice not far from previous box
first aid kit2 same skelet

mp1 after first ice, story related, simply dont hurry and listen to everything

ammo6 (ak, shotgun) after mp1 climb up to ground level and look right, stairs to bridge to your left. There is a skelet
filter4 same skelet
first aid kit3 same skelet

mp2 same area, walk toward bridge support, there is dead watchmens and deamon

note1 near bridge support 2 dead stalkers and note
guns helsing same location
ammo7 (valve) one of stalkers in this location
ammo8 (shotgun, tikhar, ak) another stalker in this location
filter5 on this stalker
first aid kit4 on each stalker
ammo9 (helsing) in one of dead watchmens

ammo10 (helsing) get to metro entrance (go upstairs from previous location). Check wall near doorway (from street)

ammo11 (pistol, ak) as soon as you enter station check skelet to the right
filter6 same skelet

ammo12 (shotgun, valve, ak) same room, 2 skelets and 2 backpaks near each other on some papers. All loot on one skelet, another is empty
filter7 same group of skelets

ammo13 (helsing, ak) same room, skelets in dark corner
filter8 same skelets

ammo14 (tikhar, ak) station second floor, dead body with working head light
first aid kit4 same dead body

guns3 pistol after this body open rusty grate and check under stairs
ammo15 (tikhar, pistol, cm) same location
filters9 same location

ammo16 (helsing) dead deamon near water on ship

note2 skelet on top of ship
ammo17 (valve, shotgun, ak) same skelet
filters10 same skelet
first aid kit5 same skelet

guns4 after 'bridge made of subway cars' skelet on ice
ammo18 (shotgun) same skelet
first aid kit5 same skelet

guns5 vsv on snow a little further

ammo19 (pistol, ak) dead body with working head lite a little further

ammo19 (pistol, ak) start climbing up, skelet to your left in grass before staircase
filters11 same skelet
















The Bridge:

Achievement #28 – Rain Man: Complete the Bridge Level without a kill.

mp1 at the beginning you need to go up but there is doorway to your left
guns1 valve this location
ammo1 (tn, cm, valve, ak, pistol, ig)
filters1
fak1

mp2(?) story related soon after you jump down into hole in bridge, you need to progress a little

key1 same area as mp2 dead body near glowing green mushroom

ammo2 (shotgun, pistol, ak, valve, cm) dead body right after key1

ammo3 (shotgun, ak, pistol, tk) at the exit of ammo2 location, dead body and dead watchmen
guns vsv

ammo4 (shotgun) get out from previous hole and walk till you be able to jump to rails. There should be destroyed train to your right. Dead body on left platform in dead end
filters2

ammo5 (thikhar, shotgun) shortly after there will see sort of waterfall in the center of platform. Check service building to the right. Dead bodies
filters3

note1 check another service building, left one. Entrance by the fire. On the table with computer

ammo6 (shotgun, ak, pistol) note1 location, lockers

safe1 (720) note location

ammo7 (tikhar, ak) somewhere in the middle of the room after escalator and tourniquet dead body on the groun. Hard to miss
mgr1(722)
filters4
fak2

ammo8 same area, u turn column and you will see another dead body

ammo9 same area, from ammo8 you can go toward fireplace or you can check dead end to your right. There is dead body near atms
fak3

ammo10 near fireplace, dead monster and dead body

ammo11 inside small room near fireplace
guns vsv

ammo12 dead body on your way to radio, after stairs

ammo13 dead body right next to the radio
filters5

mgr2(724) after cutscene, service building with fireplace next to it. Open safe in dark corner
ammo14 same safe
fak4 same safe

Note #33: When you have crossed the bridge, you will come to some escalators. Before heading up them, turn left at the barrel fire & the corpses, & enter the small room. The Note will be on a desk straight instead.


















Depot:

mgr1 (736) small gatehouse to your left right after you exit from under tunnel. Small green box on table and orange metal box on wall
fak1
filters1

mp1 from this gatehouse window you will see train and building. Enter that building. There will be truck with dead body

mgr2 (738) this truck, metal box in truck body
ammo1

guns bastard in dumster near gatehouse with light on second floor

market (496)

ammo2 after market, first railcar (on second floor), on the floor behind closest to exit seats small metal box

filters2 big room, warehouse on the opposite wall from which you came. There is also gas lamp (orange light) behind it. Small metal box on reel
fak2

filters3 next warehouse by this wall. Look for lurker body at the wall. Search shelves near floor

mp2 jump into this room central tunnel

filters4 this room right tunnel, under stairs

ammo3 central tunnel, second section, behind iron gate
key1

safe1 first warehouse
mgr3 (497)

filters5 coridor between 2 rooms, on cement block near door to stairs

gas mask on your left once you pass the door from coridor to stairs

ammo4 on shelves near floor in second room. After you enter room immediatly turn right, near window
mgr4 (499)

note1 immediatly after you enter second room turn left. You will get into toilets. Broken in the corner wall lead to another small section. Note is on the floor

filters6 one of urinals in toilets section

filters7 toilets section, another broken wall, looks like living room. Bollard in the corner

filters8 next section, looks like kitchen. Shelves on your right

ammo5 after kitchet one more small koridor with locker in dead end

fak3 in the middle of main section, vending machine dispencer

ammo6 locker near entrance, near window

mgr5 (506) after stairs down look around. See mask graffiti. Small iron box on the ground
ammo7 big wooden box with throwing knive near mgr5

mgr6 (507) next aream service tunnel. Turn left as soon as you can. Blue plastic box on the ground, follow piptes

filters9 on the ground near exit from this service tunnel

filter10 exit service tunnel, room 3. Dont turn, go straight. Shelves on your right

mp3 go into center tunnel under room3

ammo8 central tunnel under room3, small alcove, table with metal box

key1 truck steering whell near central tunnel exit/entrance

mgr7 (516) safe in section with radio

filters11 main section, bath in the middle, shelves right next to this bath

filters12 metal box on table in section with radio
fak4
ammo9

filters13 room4. Tiny tunnel under room4 to your right once you neter room

filters14 ventilation sections immediatly left as you enter room4

filters15 reel at the start (right before) of railcars section, in the corner, near warehouse

mgr8 (522) metal box on stairs leading to railcat roof, stairs start in the center part of this room, between railcars

mp4 bridge between railcars. You should see light from under railcar go there and jump into hole in roof. Then jump into tunnel

mgr9 (523) heavy soldier

filters16 on table, section after section with radio

mgr10 (524) metal box on the ground in gatehouse after you exit room4


Achievement #29 – Secret: Find out about the Reds plans on the Depot Level.
Story Related. After you deal with Lesnitsky, you will unlock the Achievement. 

























Dead City:

Find 7 color visions for the "Back to the Past" achievement, just an extra collectible to find on this Level
Achievement #30 – Ever Vigilant: Disarm 10 Traps.
Achievement #31 – Back to the Past: See all 7 Visions on the Dead City Level.

vision1 level start, "продукты" truck to your right. Enter building behind this truck. Enter doorway covered with rog

ammo1 doorway next to vision1 room
filters1

ammo2 return to building entrance and go upstairs. Metal box on the floor

vision2 same building, last room

ammo3 opposite building, radioactive basement, metal box on the ground
filters2

key1 enter ammo3 building, first floor, toilet

safe1 second floor of this building

note1 closed door next to key1, on a bollard by the wall behind table with red tablecloth

vision3 wait for thunder once yo get note1, dont move

filters3 next room, trune over shelves

color vision4 story related 

ammo4 once you jump into catacombs under kids playground check rool to your left. Metal box near white mask graffiti
filters4

filters5 you can exit catacombs going right or investigate another room.
ammo5
guns helsing

color vision2 exit catacombs. For story you need to go into ark. Check building first. Room on second floor

mgr1 color vision2 room. Piano

filters6 continue into ark. Before jumping down check dumpsters to your right. There is khaki metal box on the ground
ammo6

color vision3 story related

mgr2 (535) color vision3, turn right, find stairs down. Search room, khaki metal box on table
ammo7
filters7
fak

filters8 exit previous cellar. This one a little tricky. There is another hole/cellar where roof of first cellar ends

ammo8 dead body in grass, easy to miss. From filters8 right after ark to right 

color vision4 from color vision3 turn right and enter building. Room on first floor

filters9 color vision4 room, bollard

guns2 valve in color vision4 bathroom

color vision5 story related

filters10 room next to color vision5, bollard near broken tv

ammo9 jump off white truck, enter building to your right, follow coridor, enter building. Stalkers hideout, metal box

ammo10 another truck in the yard

note2 roof, deamon nest
ammo11
guns ak2012
filters11

color vision6 go downstairs, check room

mp1 story related

ammo12 after mp1 you can jump into hole to get to building basement or check small raoom behind red 3weel bicicle
filters12

color vision7 story related

mgr3 (541) after color vision7 before tourniquet check room on your right, khaki metal box on the ground
filers13
ammo13

















Red Square:

achievement revenge

note1 very start after one cobwebs, in crypt to your left

ammo1 once you exit crypt, almost emmediatly, there will be fallen tree, and after it car and skelet on your right. Near skelet.

ammo2 ammo1 watchmen corpse

ammo3 between ammo1 and ammo2 near bus driver seat

mp1 dont attack watchmens

filters1 near cathedral. There is dead body on stairs and filters on the ground under

ammo4 skelet in bus by cathedral
fak
guns ak

ammo5 cathedral stairs, dead body above filters1

ammo6 cathedral, 'back room'
filters2

ammo7 throwing knives in watchmen dead body near marker

ammo8 dead body in first storm hideout
fak

filters3 second storm hideout

filters4 third storm hideout

filters5 next to watchmen

ammo9 fight watchmens or skip
filters5
fak

filters6 jump down to green lake
ammo10

guns valve on top of mausoleum

ammo11 in mausoleum in first crossroad turn left, follow coridor till dead end. Search backpack on the floor
filters8

note2 mausoleum burial chamber
guns vsv
filters8
ammo12

filters9 once you get to courtyard immediatly turn left. Dead body on the ground
ammo13
fak

ammo14 another body in courtyard. Pass first shields and check left car wreckage 
fak
guns 4x duplet

ammo15 skelet in middle of courtyard in puddle
filters10

ammo16 dead body near car wreckage right in center of courtyard
guns vsv

ammo17 near last shields row
guns saiga

ammo18 near entrance to building

mp save to gain, leave to loose













543
The Garden:

Achievement #32 – Forest Guardian: Save the Bear from the Watchmen after the fight on The Garden Level

There will be watchmens patrols on this level. Every time you stop them, ither by shooting or just standing near them passing by, you will get negatinve moral point

filters1 level start. turn back to where you come from, on your left dead body in grass

ammo1 shortly after filters1, on the road
filters2

ammo2 from ammo1 immediatly turn left and jump into ravine. There will be cavity with dead watchmen and helsing ammo

ammo3 from ammo2 exit hole and turn right, stay in ravine. You will bump into island. Turn right. Look for another cavity with skelet and shrimp

ammo4 skelet by tree before swamp to your left
filters3
guns bastard

ammo5 next to ammo4 you will see metal fence. Walk around it and search another cavity

ammo6 once you get to ground from first swamp secion follow right water edge. Dead body in grey overcoat in dark corner behind grass on something that looks like broken bridge
filters4

filter4 kill shrimp

ammo7 skelet by tree on small island that you can get to by log near filters4

mp1 from ammo7 use submerged pipe to get to next nook
ammo8
guns shambler

ammo9 follow main path, once you get to solid ground after second set of swamp markers, check tree to your left. Backpack n the ground by this tree
filter5

filters 6 across the road from ammo9

filters7 demo on your right

key1 from filters7 look left, there is a metal box next to water edge
mgr1

mp2
ammo10 return to filters4. You came from 2, story continue on 8, 4 is where you found ammo7. Thus go 6. Reach water. There will be wooden board that lead to stone handrails. Walk over it till you find some sort of store on your right. In first room unlocked safe and dead body with ammo.

mgr2 look for dead body in water next entrance to room 2

safe1 In third room behind cobweb

mgr3 safe1 room, khaki box
filters8

ammo11 follow story path. After crossroad which lead to key you will get into another ravine. Another cavity to your right. Loot is near 2 dead bodies behind 2 dead watchmens
filters9

filters10 follow story path, find skelet to your right almost ont your way. Near glowing mushrooms 

ammo12 next glowing mushrooms on your left. Backpack near wall
mgr4 (570)

ammo13 next glowing mashrooms (2 areas, to your left and right, you need right ones). Skelet next to tree, close to markers. There is also a checkpoint

ammo14 from ammo13 look left. Find some sort of stone pedestal. There is skelet next to dead watchmens
mgr5 (572)

ammo15 from ammo13 next (left) glowing mushrooms. Backpack at the end of stone column or whatever it is
mgr6 (578)

ammo16 follow story path, skelet on your left on the road. Hard to miss
filters11

mp crawl, dont go left

note1 after cutscene look ahead of you. There is a skelet near tree and glowing mushrooms

ammo17 metal box next to note1
filters12

ammo18 one more skelet 2 steps from note1 skelet, behind same tree

ammo19 skelet on the ground once on jump into arena
filters13

ammo20 search arena, look for glowing mushrooms where your opponent came in
guns shambler

ammo21 arena, glowing mushrooms in grass towards exit
guns bastard

ammo22 after arena, near marker, backpack on the ground by one of tree (glowing mushrooms)
filters14

ammo23 you will see level exit. Dont hurry. Check tread near fence. There is backpack and note
filters15
note2
















Polis:

Achievement #33 – Revelation: Make Moskvin tell the truth with the help from the Dark One on the Polis Level.

note1 after decontamination camera on a bench to your left


















D6:

Achievement #36 – Spartan 2034: Complete the game in Spartan Mode.

Achievement "Redemption: Save D6."
or
Achievement "C’est la Vie: Destroy D6."

note1 after train on your right, on the table with radio

ammo1 metal box on floor at the opposite wall from train, near tower

ammo2 wooden box near barricade

Note #42: When the final Level begins, Miller will make a speech, afterwards head towards the radio on your immediate right to find the Note beside it.

Note #43: After the battle with the tank, head up to the third platform, the final Note will be beside the ammo box to your right.


Achievement #34 – Published: Collect all 43 of Artyom’s hidden Diary pages.
If you successfully collected all 43 Notes in the game, you will receive this Achievement. If you didn’t, the game will have recorded which ones you have & have not picked up. Be sure to use Chapter Select & snag the ones you missed before starting the second playthrough. It will delete all your Note progress.

MP #108: One final point will be awarded if the you succeed in receiving the “Good Ending”. Kind of redundant at this point though don’t you think?



If you successfully found the majority of the Moral Points & did not kill any major characters you should receive the “Good Ending”.



End game Achievement for beating the game in Spartan Mode. Or Survival 2034 if you chose Survival Mode instead.